# sinalgo-simulation
A simulation of leader election and PAXOS

Paxos is a family of protocols for solving consensus in a network of unreliable processors. Consensus is the process of agreeing on one result among a group of participants. This problem becomes difficult when the participants or their communication medium may experience failures.<br/> 
The strategies are far too simplistic for effective real-world use but they do work and the result is a small and relatively simple code base. This will hopefully show that multi-paxos isn’t inherently all that complex or difficult to implement. When enhanced for operation in practical environments, a significant level of complexity may need to be added but as this example also demonstrates, software designs emphasizing a strong separation-of-concerns can effectively compartmentalize the areas of complexity and isolate them from one another.
Paxos places a few specific rules on how peers must handle messages in order to ensure correctness of the end result. The basic algorithm does not, however, provide a comprehensive definition for message handling. There is a surprising amount of flexibility allowed in this regard and it leaves several areas of practical importance completely undefined. For example, it provides little guidance on how failed nodes are to be detected or how collisions between multiple peers making simultaneous suggestions should be handled. The algorithm guarantees correctness irrespective of implementation choices made in handling these issues but offers no clues about how to do it. <br/>
<strong>Implementation Approach</strong><br/>
The code is written in Java using Sinalgo as simulation tool. Sinalgo is a simulation framework for testing and validating network algorithms. Unlike most other network simulators, which spend most time simulating the different layers of the network stack, Sinalgo focuses on the verification of network algorithms, and abstracts from the underlying layers: It offers a message passing view of the network, which captures well the view of actual network devices. Sinalgo was designed, but is not limited to simulate wireless networks. 
The implementation of Multi-Paxos focuses on the implementation of the node class Paxos that extends the class node MobileDevice implemented with the functionalities to choose leaders in a set of interconnected nodes. In this way our objects have the ability to make the choice of leader independently of the implementation of the implemented Paxos algorithm, only the election results are used by Paxos.
In the simulation, three types of request message classes were implemented with their corresponding response. The first is about the message Prepare_Req, the second is the class QuorumRequest and the last PaxosSuccedeed. All this class has a method response to provide a response to the message. <br/>
Because Paxos allows several nodes with the proposer function, we established that the wait time for the response of a message will be 10 rounds (TIMETORESPONSE), but this parameter is configurable and can be assigned with other value. The decision to place this measure is to obtain the convergence towards the leader of groups faster. <br/>
In order to guarantee that there are no conflicts regarding the synchronism of the nodes involved in the execution of the algorithm, it was decided that each round of a node starts if:<br/>
ID = round% max(numberOfNodes, TIMETORESPONSE), where ID is the identifier of the node, round is the number of the actual round and numberOfNodes is the actualy number of nodes.

